We have connected to our net server successfully, so we're now going to attempt to publish some data
to it.
Let me first show you a quick diagram just to introduce a couple of different pieces of terminology
on how we're going to publish data.
Okay.
So in this diagram on the left hand side, we've got our publisher and the listener.
We have not yet put the listener together.
But I want to give you a brief description of what we're going to eventually do inside there.
Then on the right hand side is our NAT streaming server, and inside there is some list of channels.
Remember, in the Nats world, we always publish information to a very specific channel.
So here's how we actually share information around inside of our publisher.
We're going to come up with some piece of data that we want to share with everything else that's listening
to the stat server.
So we're going to create some object or something like that.
We're then also going to come up with a subject.
A subject is the name of the channel that we want to share this information with.
For you and I, we're going to imagine that we are trying to share some data about a ticket that was
just created inside of our application.
So our data is going to be essentially a ticket.
It will be something it has an ID, a title and a price.
Our subject or the name of the channel that we want to share this information with.
We're going to give it a name that kind of describes the type of data that we're trying to share.
So in our case, we are trying to share some data related to the creation of a ticket.
The name of our channel will be Ticket Colon created.
We're going to take this data and the subject and pass it in to the stand client.
The stand client is then going to reach over to the gnat streaming server.
When it reaches over, it's going to say, Hey, we want to share some information, specifically this
data over the channel or the subject name of ticket created.
Then that streaming server is then going to add ticket colon created to its overall list of channels.
It'll then take our data.
And broadcast it out of that channel to anyone who's listening.
Now at present inside of our application, we don't really have any implementation for the listener
at all.
So if we try to share data or publish some data on this channel right now.
That server will say, okay, I will try to do this, but just so you know, no one's really listening.
So we can always attempt to publish data.
And if no one's listening, well, that's pretty much it.
Our data is just going to be emitted into the void, and no one's really going to hear from us about
whatever just occurred.
So at some point in time, we will create this listener.
When we make the listener, we're going to have a subject that we want to listen to.
So in our case, the subject we want to listen to or the channel we want to listen to will be ticket
created.
So we'll take ticket created and pass it also into the stand client that's going to tell the stand client
to tell the gnat server that any time some information is published from this channel, we want to receive
a copy of that information and will receive that information in something called the subscription.
So a subscription is what is going to actually listen for some information and tell us whenever some
information is received.
Okay.
So it's kind of a high level overview.
And mostly I just want to show you some different important pieces of terminology.
So the subject is the name of the channel we want to publish information to.
The channel is something that we listen to.
The subscription is what's going to actually listen to the channel and eventually it receives some data.
Let's now go back over to our publisher file and we're going to try to publish an event.
Back inside a publisher.
Right after our log, I'm going to write out the data object.
So this will be the information we want to share.
We're going to, again, kind of pretend that we're sharing information about a ticket being created.
So we'll give this thing some ID.
A title of concert and maybe a price of 20.
Now there is a little gotcha around gnats, and the gotcha is that we can only essentially share strings
or essentially raw data.
What we have right here is an object that we want to share, so we cannot share directly a plain JavaScript
object.
In order to share this or send over to the net streaming server, we first have to convert it into JSON,
which is a plane string.
So essentially all of our data before we send over to that streaming server, we just have to convert
it into JSON.
So I'm going to wrap that with JSON.
String ify.
Like so.
Then after that, we'll call the standard publish function.
The publish function is how we actually publish some data.
When we call publish, we're going to pass in the name of the channel or the subject we want to publish
this information to, and we'll also pass in the data we want to share as well.
So we'll call, stand, publish.
The first argument is going to be the subject name.
So in our case that is ticket colon created.
The second argument is the data we want to share.
There's then an optional third argument.
So we do not have to do this.
We can if we want to.
The third argument is a callback function.
This function is going to be invoked after we publish this data.
So inside of here we might just put in a simple console log and say.
Event published.
Let's now save this file.
Just so you know, the node dev program that we're using inside of our package JSON script is going
to automatically rerun the publisher file as soon as we save it.
So as soon as we save this, we should see that we reconnect to our Nats cluster or NAT server and then
attempt to publish some information.
So I'm going to save this, go back over to my terminal and sure enough I see a you're connected to
Nats and then event published.
All right.
Well, that's the basics of how we publish events.
Now, just, you know, in the world of gnats, rather than referring to this data that we send along
as a event or something like that, it is more commonly referred to as a message.
So you will see a lot of stuff in the Nats documentation referring to this data or this information
we're sending out as a message, whereas in this course we're referring to it as an event because that's
really what it is to us.
It's an event.
It's something that occurred inside of our app that we want to share with other services.
Now that we've got our publisher put together with a very basic implementation, we're going to take
a pause and then tackle our listener in the next video.